Once we have looked at the developer tools next one on one and we cover the grid lines that we already
looked at in the previous video.
First and foremost not only in the browser but also in my actual set of files as well as the current
working project.
I'm gonna add a margin all around for a container just so we can see a bit clear our grid lines.
So it's going to look something like that.
So I added margin all around and we could technically head over again back to our project and just check
it out the grid lines but I would just like to show you the resources that you can use.
So within a browser I just type see us as grid and then we're going to click on the images and you're
going to see a bunch of very very useful images.
And again we're just gonna keep on scrolling and we're gonna notice the image that I like the most.
So let me grab this image and that's not what I wanted to do.
So let me roll over back and let me zoom in.
So I would like to point out right now is the fact that as we're working with the grid we have a grid
container so that is of course our parent container.
And then of course we have our grid lines.
So we have grid lines for the columns as well as we have the grid lines for the rows.
So these would be the grid lines for the rows and then these ones would be for the columns.
Then we also have something called track.
So whether that will be horizontal track then we are talking about the road track as well as for the
columns we have the contra.
So I will be this thing when we have grid cells and that would be our track.
And then of course we're also going to have the grid area which again we're going to cover just inside.
So this just gives you an idea that if you don't like my explanations then I'm going to use the number
either.
You can always always head over back to a web and you can find whatever image or visual explanation
that you actually enjoy the most.
So you can also use maybe this one where again we have the cell and we have a track and then we have
the area me close it for now.
Let's close this guy.
And then once we had over back to our project again we have our lines.
So we have the com lines starting from one and two then three and four and the more columns you want
to add all the more lines.
I'm going to have as well.
So have three columns and then of course it ends with a line number four for my columns.
So the same works with a rose I have three rows.
That's the reason why it ends with a number for now.
Now that we know that we have those lines.
Let's take a look at how we can use them by in fact rearranging our grid.
So let's imagine the scenario where I would like my first cell to be spanning all the way from the column
line one to a column line number three like cell.
And I also like to use the second row as well.
So I would like to have my cell spanning from the wrong number one to a row line number three.
So I would want it to be spanning in the second row.
So the way we do that is first all we need to target the individual cell.
And that's the reason why we added here this class as well.
So let's target this particular cell and then the properties are following.
So we have a grid column and then we have the end and the start.
Now I'm going to show you also the shorter later on but let's just start the long way.
We have grid columns start.
So let's say you know what I'm going to start with.
Let's say a grid column line number one correct.
Then I would want a grid column and then we say well where would want to end.
So it's really up to us currently it ends with a column line of two.
Now I could end it at three and four.
It's really up to me.
So I'm going to go with let's say three and the moment we do that right away myself spans now automatically
again we're just shifting the Arabs notice once we have seven items we have three rows and now we just
move the rest of the Arabs.
So cell number two right now are sitting here where the cells number three was and all the way up to
a cell number seven.
Now I also like to in fact use this to span my cell in a second row.
Can we do that.
Well of course we can.
So we have grid row then we have again start.
So we're gonna start with number one like so and then we have grid rule and then we go with end.
So where it should end.
Again remember the lines were four rows one then this guy was number two then three and then four.
So it's really up to you where you would want this particular column to span.
So I'm gonna go you know what I would like it to span two rows.
So I'm gonna say that my grade Roland is going to be equal to three and check it out.
Now we have my cell that is spanning in fact two columns as well as two rows and we can do that by using
the fact that we have numbers for our columns.
We have lines that have numbers for our columns as well as for our particular rows.
Now let's imagine that I would want my cell cell number four to span all across.
But you not before we do that.
Why don't I show you the shortcut so we could also write it like this so grid column and then we have
the first line so where it should start and then we have a forward slash and then we add here where
we would want our cell to end and which column and that's the reason why we had one and then forward
slash three.
Again this is exactly what we wrote before.
This is just a bit of a shorthand and you can probably already guess that if we're going to write a
grid row then of course we're going to also have a want three.
So where it starts forward slash and where it ends.
Now I'm going to come on this out just so I can see the long way as well but the moment will be saved
of course nothing changes.
Now I also would like to point it out.
Two things.
First of all we can use the negative values.
Remember I also mentioned that where if we're checking this out we notice that we have negative values
here.
We have one two three four.
Those would be my column lines.
Then I also have negative 1 negative 2 negative 3 and negative 4.
So what if let's say I would want my cell number for the span all across this row.
Now I could say something like this.
I could say cell four.
I know it's sitting in let's say row number three correct.
Because remember now again we are doing the same thing where we are creating the implicit grid because
even though our normal layout was three columns and three rows in fact the cell number four is sitting
in a third row.
But we right away have already.
The fourth row now that particular fourth row is already implicit and we can tell that because we don't
have any numbers here.
Notice there is no numbers here because we're just creating right away.
Our implicit great.
Now back to our task where I would like to span from this cell for an hour one Hispanic from the column
line number 1 all the way to the end of the column.
Let's say that it's hard for me to actually count how many lines I have.
I can be like you know what.
I just cannot bother counting.
Well I could write a great column and then remembered a shortcut.
We had a one so it's gonna start with one and then forward slash and we would want to end it.
Negative 1 y negative 1 0.
That would be our last one correct.
So let's say we don't want to count the four.
So you're not span all across to a negative four.
Not saying that.
And there you go.
And this is something that it would be impossible to do.
In fact with a 4 x marks because as we're working with Flex bars again flex box is very powerful like
box is very great.
I'm not dissing right now on the Flex box.
What I'm saying is when we're using the Flex box we were limited to only working in one dimensional
layout whether that would be a horizontal or vertical.
Now in this case what happens in fact with a C is as great is that we're not limited to that by a very
simple example when we're using grid lines.
Notice how powerful it is to create this type of layout and in fact how easy it is to create this kind
of layout.
Even if we're just knowing the basic facts about the grid lines.